the Book of Isaiah
the vision of Isaiah the son of Amoz
which he saw concerning Judah and
Jerusalem in the days of Isaiah jotham
ahaz and hezekiah kings of Judah here o
heavens and give ear o earth for the
Lord has spoken
I have nourished and brought up children
and they have rebelled against me the ox
knows its owner and the donkey its
master's crib but Israel does not know
my people do not consider
alas sinful nation a people laden with
iniquity a brood of evildoers children
who are corrupters they have forsaken
the Lord they have provoked to anger the
Holy One of Israel they have turned away
backward why should you be stricken
again you will revolt more and more the
whole head is sick and the whole heart
faints from the sole of the foot even to
the head there is no soundness in it but
wounds and bruises and putrefying sores
they have not been closed or bound up or
soothed with ointment your country is
desolate your cities are burned with
fire
strangers devour your land in your
presence and it is desolate as
overthrown by strangers so the daughter
of Zion is left as a booth in a vineyard
as a hut in a garden of cucumbers as a
besieged city unless the Lord of hosts
had left to us a very small remnant we
would have become like Sodom we would
have been made like Gomorrah hear the
word of the Lord
you rulers of Sodom give ear to the law
of our God you people of Gomorrah
- what purpose is the multitude of your
sacrifices to me I have had enough of
burnt offerings of rams and the fat of
fed cattle I do not delight in the blood
of bulls or of lambs or goats
when you come to appear before me who
has required this from your hand to
trample my quartz bring no more futile
sacrifices incense is an abomination to
me the new moons the Sabbath's and the
calling of assemblies
I cannot endure iniquity and the sacred
meeting your new moons and your
appointed feasts my soul hates they are
a trouble to me I am weary of bearing
them when you spread out your hands I
will hide my eyes from even though you
make many prayers I will not hear your
hands are full of blood wash yourselves
make yourselves clean
put away the evil of your doings from
before my eyes cease to do even learn to
do good seek justice rebuke the
oppressor defend the fatherless plead
for the widow come now and let us reason
together though your sins are like
scarlet they shall be as white as snow
though they are red like crimson they
shall be as if you are willing and
obedient you shall eat the good of the
land but if you refuse and rebel you
shall be devoured by the sword for the
mouth of the Lord has spoken how the
faithful City has become a harlot it was
full of justice righteousness lodged in
it but now murderers your silver has
become dross your wine mixed with water
your princes are rebellious and
companions of thieves
everyone loves bribes and follows after
rewards they do not defend the
fatherless nor does the cause of the
widow come before them therefore the
Lord says the Lord of hosts the Mighty
One of Israel ah I will rid myself of my
adversaries and take vengeance on my
enemies I will turn my hand against you
and thoroughly purge away your dross and
take away all your alloy
I will restore your judges as at the
first and your counselors as at the
beginning
afterward you shall be called the city
of righteousness the faithful City Sian
shall be redeemed with justice and her
penitence with righteousness the
destruction of transgressors and of
sinners shall be together and those who
forsake the Lord shall be consumed for
there shall be ashamed of the terebinth
trees which you have desired and you
shall be embarrassed because of the
gardens which you have chosen for you
shall be as a terrible whose leaf fames
and as a garden that has no water the
strong shall be as tender and the work
of it as a spark
both will burn together and no one shall
quench them
[Music]